
Week 13, 2022
IPv4 Subnetting Practice

  Summary:
   IPv4 subnetting is, once again, a simple yet very crucial lab. It contains several YouTube videos as well as a small application segment that helps you 
   apply what you learned.
  
  A Closer Look: 
   There are a total of seven YouTube videos that start off broad and get very detailed in describing how subnetting works. Once you have finished watching 
   the videos you get to apply what you learned by filling in a table with the correct subnet information on a particular IP address. Overall the lab was mostly
   focused on the videos rather than the practice, which, to be fair the videos explained the concept very well. 
  
  Personal Thoughts: 
   I found the lab to be very informative, though I'm usually a fan of more hands on work as opposed to videos. Though, that is because of my own individual learning
   style and regardless the videos were helpful. I liked how the application part of the lab didn't go above and beyond to try and drill it into your head making 
   you hate the concept. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Week 6, 2022 

Virtual Labs "Fabrication of Cables" 
CSCI-19 Module 6

  Summary: 
  Fabrication of cables is a comparatively simple lab that covers the differences between straight, crossover, and rollover cables. Specifically, it explains
  how the wires are color-coded within the cable. 
  
  A Closer Look: 
  The fabrication of cables virtual lab is extremely short, so my summary of the lab will be fairly short in response. It essentially consists of two rows that 
  you have to match up, being the pc and switch ports for the cables. The lab has you correctly order the color code of the wires for straight, crossover and 
  rollover cables. If you correctly matched both PC and switch ports for all three cables the lab is finished.
  
  Personal Thoughts: 
  Although the lab is short I felt it did its job on imprinting the correct color codes for the three different cables pretty well. Although I did have to do
  some outside research on things that I had forgot that the lab itself didnt explain too well, it still got the job done. I appreciated that the lab was short 
  as I dont feel this topic requires an extremely long lab considering how specific it is.




Week 5, 2022

TryHackMe Room 4 "Active Reconnaissance" 
CSCI-19 Module 5

  Summary:
  Active Reconnaissance focuses on simple, yet powerful tools that can be used to gather information useful for penetration testing and IT. These 
  tools include ping, traceroute, telnet, and nc. The room explains how these tools can be used in "active reconnaissance" along with other web 
  based reconnaissance techniques such as whois, though, whois is not covered in this room. 
  
  A Closer Look:
  Room 4 begins by explaining the concepts of passive and active reconnaissance, informing us that passive recon method that doesn't require direct engagement
  or connection. Where as active recon requires more physcial engagement such as social engineering or physical recon of a location.Also because a lot of this
  information is public it is extremely easy to find, and is not necessarily suspicious when you go looking for it, depending on what you do. The room begins 
  with important tools you can use within the web browser, more specifically, looking at javascript and using developer tools. Then, it delves into the use of 
  "ping" to determine if remote systems have network functionality. It covers several options you can use such as -c/-n to modify the amount of packets to be sent. 
  Then, the room switches over to "traceroute", which is a room that is used to view the path a packet takes en route to destination. It shows potentially important
  information such as the IP addresses of routers used along the path. Next, the room discusses telnet which is a tool used to connect to remotely to devices with a 
  CLI. It explains the use of telnet when connecting to a webpage, and also warns how unsecure telnet is due to it sending credentials and other important 
  information in clear text. Finally, the room covers netcat. A tool that has many uses, however, the room focuses purely on its' use in listening on a TCP port.
  It explains how netcat can be used to act as a client on listening ports as well as act as a server listening on a port. 
  
  Personal Thoughts: I thought Active Reconnaissance to be a very informative room on how to gather information on a target. Penetration testing is a very
  captivating topic and I will always enjoy material on this subject. More importantly however, I found the room covered fairly easy to use, yet, important 
  tools that can be used in recon. While tools such as ping and traceroute have been discussed in previous rooms, I still found important information
  now that it was framed in use for penetration testing. Overall, I thought the room was as informative and well put together as I would expect a 
  TryHackMe room to be, and the information to be useful for the class.
  
 
 
 
 
Week 4, 2022

TryHackMe Room 3 "DNS in Detail"
CSCI-19 Module 4
  
   Summary:
   This weeks TryHackMe room was a bit shorter than previous rooms, however, still delivers a lot of important information. The room covers the 
   fundamentals as well as more in depth information on the Domain Name System (DNS) and how computers use it to access websites. It talks about 
   how DNS determines certain aspects of a websites URL by using the domain hierarchy. Also covered is the different record types including A, AAAA, 
   CNAME, MX, and TXT. Lastly, it goes over how the entire system works together when a computer makes a request for a webpage. 
   
   A Closer Look: 
   The room first gives a breif explanation of DNS and how it makes our lives easier so that we don't have to remember strings of numbers. Then it 
   delves into the "Domain Hierarchy", or rather, how the URL is split up into different sections for the DNS to handle. Terms such as TLD (Top-Level
   Domain) SLD (Second-Level Domain) and Subdomain are explained. The TLD is responsible for the ".com" or ".org" and there a several types of TLD 
   including gTLD and ccTLD. SLD is responsible for the actual name part of the website. For instance, in www.facebook.com the SLD would be facebook. 
   Lastly, is the subdomain which is to the left of the SLD. Next is the different kinds of records used by DNS. A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, and TXT are all 
   various DNS records. These can be used when trying to obtain certain identifying information about a website. Such as IP info, domain-names linked 
   to a website, etc. Lastly, the room explains the complex dance a computer and DNS server has to go through in order to gain connectionto a website. 
   Such as how it sends requests to various DNS servers that handle different parts of the domain hierarchy.
   
   Personal Thoughts: 
   "DNS in Detail" was imperitive for my understanding of how websites and clients communicate with each other to gain connection. It is a very 
   complex system with a lot of moving parts. I feel that the DNS records types could have used some further explanation as I feel I dont fully 
   grasp the importance of them beyond making queries into a website. Unless that is their entire purpose in which I understand them perfectly! 
   Regardless, I will do my own research into the records types to fill in some of the gaps. The process of making a DNS request was laid out very 
   nicely however. I feel I understand the process of how a computer checks its local cache for the site info, and if it doesn't find what it's looking 
   for it hops from recursive, to root, to authorative DNS servers and back. Overall, this lab was great as always and I feel it was very informative. 
   
 
 
 
 
Week 3, 2022
  
TryHackMe Room 2 "Intro to LAN"
CSCI-19 Module 3
  
   Summary: 
   The room this week improved our understanding of the different LAN topologies, subnetting, as well as the different networking protocols such as ARP 
   and DHCP. However, it also briefly covered topics such as IP addressing, routers, and switches. This room was full of useful, fundamental 
   information regarding basic networking concepts. I found the sections on subnetting as well as ARP and DHCP to be the most informative; As these 
   are protocols I have seen before using wireshark. Though, at the time I was unaware of what their function were. 
       
   A Closer Look:
   The first lesson in the room covers the various forms of topologies seen in real-world LANs. Such as ring, BUS, and star topologies. It covers the 
   different pros and cons attributed to each topology, as well as their relevance in modern networks. First, the room addresses star topologies,
   depicting how all the devices are connected to a central switch or hub. Then, it discusses how a ring topology connects all the devices
   together with cables so that data flows from device to device to its destination. Then, finally, it talks about the BUS topology and how the devices 
   are connected to a central cable or "backbone".
   
   Then the room goes into detail about subnetting and how it may be ideal to split one large network into multiple smaller ones that communicate with 
   each other. It explains a little about IP addressing and how it relates to the subnet, more specifically, how subnets use IP addresses to 
   communicate on a network. Key terms such as network addresses, host addresses, and default gateways are also defined and explained. 
   
   Then the room delves into two different protocols, ARP and DHCP. First, it explains the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) and how requests
   and replies are sent between devices on a network. More specifically, how a device sends out an ARP request looking for a specific MAC address of 
   the device it wants to communicate with. Then, how the protocol sends an ARP reply once it's found the device it was looking for. 
   
   The Last protocol to be discussed was the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). This smaller section depicts the conversation that takes place 
   between a device looking to be configured with an IP address, and the DHCP server. When a device is not configured with an IP address manually, it 
   can use a DHCP server to configure an IP address by sending a DHCP Discover packet. If this discover packet is picked up by the server it sends out 
   a DHCP offer. The computer then sends a DHCP request to the server requesting for that IP address to which the server sends a DHCP Ack packet, and 
   assigns that address to the computer. 
   
  
   Personal Thoughts:
   I thought this room was great, I found the lessons on the subnet as well as ARP and DHCP to be the most interesting parts of the room. The different 
   real-world topologies was also very informative as it is always nice to see examples of what LANs might look like. Overall, this room did a good 
   job at improving my fundamental understanding of networking. 
   
 
  
  

Week 2, 2022

TryHackMe Room 1 "Introductory Networking"
CSCI-19 Module 2

   Summary: 
   This weeks lab introduced us to basic network concepts that are fundemental to our understanding networking and security. The 
   room addressed topics such as OSI, the TCP/IP model, encapsulation, DNS, IP addressing, as well as several beginner networking tools like ping,
   traceroute, WHOIS, and dig.
   
   
   A Closer Look: 
   Introductory Networking provides crucial information on the basics of networking. Beginning with the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) model
   where it describes the several layers that form the network as a whole. Going into detail on how the seven layers cooperate together to maintain 
   a network standard for communication. Then the room delves into the concept of encapsulation, more specifically, how data gathers additional 
   information from each layer it passes through. Also, adding how the tranmissions are "de-encapsulated" backwards through the layers when 
   received by the end host. 
   
   Room 1 then goes on to address the additional protocols used in networking and how they align themselves with the OSI model. It also covers a 
   concept known as the "three way handshake" where a client and server need to send a series of SYN, SYN/ACK, and ACK packets in order to connect 
   to each other.
   
   Finally, the room covers several networking tools and how to use them in order to gain crucial information about a network or website. It talks
   about ping and how it can show connectivity to a website or host. The use of traceroute in mapping the path data will take to its destination. 
   Using WHOIS and dig to discover identifing information about a website as well as the server its hosted on, and important OSINT including emails, 
   phone numbers, physical addresses, and more. 
   
   
   Personal Thoughts :
   I've used TryHackMe before and have always found the lessons to be extremely helpful. This room continues that trend with lots of information that 
   I found to be really beneficial for a basic understanding of networking; Hence the name, "Introductory Networking". While I did have prior 
   knowledge about the TCP/IP model, the SYN ACK proccess, as well as most of the tools covered, I was unaware of the several layers that data 
   needs to pass through to reach its destination as well as the process of encapsulation. The room did a really good job at covering the basics and I 
   would recommend it to anyone who is just starting in networking.
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   

